Types of Test Automation Frameworks:
Automation Frameworks.
Linear Scripting Framework
Modular Testing Framework
Data Driven Testing Framework
Keyword Driven Testing Framework
Hybrid Testing Framework
Behavior Driven Development Framework

What is a framework?
----------------------
A framework defines a set of rules or best practices which we can follow in a systematic way to achieve the desired results. So the above-mentioned test automation frameworks deal with best practices to achieve the goals of our automation project.

Linear Scripting Framework: 
-----------------------------
Linear Scripting Framework is a basic level test automation framework which is in the form of ‘Record and Playback’ in a linear fashion. This framework is also known as ‘Record and Playback’ framework. This type of framework is used to test small sized applications. In this type, creation, and execution of test script are done individually for each test case individually.
Using this framework, we could generate test scripts (Record and playback) without planning much or consume much time but it has its own drawbacks such as lack of reusability and hard coding the data does not allow to run with multiple data sets.

Modular Testing Framework: 
---------------------------
In the modular testing framework, testers create test scripts on module wise by breaking down the complete application under test into smaller, independent tests. In simple words, testers divide the application into multiple modules and create test scripts individually. These individual test scripts can be combined to make larger test scripts by using a master script to achieve required scenarios. This master script is used to invoke the individual modules to run end to end test scenarios. In this framework, testers write function libraries to use it when ever required. This is AKA modularity framework or module-based framework.

Data-driven Framework: 
-----------------------
Data driven test automation framework is focused on separating the test scripts logic and the test data from each other. Allows us to create test automation scripts by passing different sets of test data. The test data set is kept in the external files or resources such as MS Excel Sheets, MS Access Tables, SQL Database, XML files etc., The test scripts connect to the external resources to get the test data. By using this framework we could easily make the test scripts work properly for different sets of test data. This framework significantly reduces the number of test scripts compared to module based framework.

This framework gives more test coverage with reusable tests and flexibility in execution of tests only when required and by changing only the input test data and reliable in terms of no impact on tests by changing the test data but it has its own drawbacks such as testers who work on this framework needs to have hands-on programming knowledge to develop test scripts.

Keyword Driven Testing Framework: 
----------------------------------
It is also known as table-driven testing or action word based testing. In Keyword-driven testing, we use a table format to define keywords or action words for each function or method that we would execute. It performs automation test scripts based on the keywords specified in the excel sheet. By using this Framework, testers can work with keywords to develop any test automation script, testers with less programming knowledge would also be able to work on the test scripts. The logic to read keywords and call the required action mentioned in the external excel sheet is placed in the main class. Keyword-driven testing is similar to data-driven testing.

Even though to work on this framework doesn’t require much programming skills but the initial setup ( implement the framework) requires more expertise.

Hybrid Driven Testing Framework: 
---------------------------------
Hybrid Test automation framework is the combination of two or more frameworks mentioned above. It attempts to leverage the strengths and benefits of other frameworks for the particular test environment it manages. Most of the teams are building this hybrid driven framework in the current market.

Behavior Driven Development Testing Framework:
-----------------------------------------------
The purpose of this Behavior Driven Development framework is to create a platform which allows everyone (such as Business Analysts, Developers, Testers etc,) to participate actively. It requires increased collaboration between Development and Test Teams.  It doesn’t require the users to be acquainted with a programming language. We use non-technical, natural language to create test specifications. Some of the tools available in the market for Behavior Driven Development is JBehave, Cucumber, etc.,

How to explain Test Automation Framework to the interviewer.
-------------------------------------------------------------
Here I will explain you every component of the architecture based on the below mentioned screenshot. Frame your answer in your own words while explaining framework to the interviewer.

We need to specify in and out of our Test Automation Framework such as programming language used, Type of framework used, Test Base Class (Initializing WebDriver, Implicit Waits), How we separate Element locators and tests (Page Objects, Page Factory), Utility functions file, Property files, TestNG annotations, How we parameterize tests using Excel files, How we capture error screenshots, Generating reports(Extent Reports), Emailing reports, Version Control System used and Continues Integration Tool used.

Language: In our Selenium Project we are using Java language. Even though Selenium supports multiple languages, we are using Java language is just because most of the automation developers have knowledge on Selenium with Java.

Type of Framework: In our project, we are using Data-driven Framework by using Page Object Model design pattern with Page Factory.

POM: As per the Page Object Model, we have maintained a class for every web page. Each web page has a separate class and that class holds the functionality and members of that web page. Separate classes for every individual test.

Packages: We have separate packages for Pages and Tests. All the web page related classes come under Pages package and all the tests related classes come under Tests package.

For example, Home Page and Login Page have a separate classes to store element locators. For the login test there would be a separate class which calls the methods from the Home Page class and Login Page class.

Above screenshot illustrates standardized maven project. As per the above maven project, all the tests are kept in the ‘src/test/java‘ and remaining files (such as config.properties, element locators (POM classes), utility files, test data, etc.,) kept under ‘src/main/java‘.

Test Base Class: Test Base class (TestBase.java) deals with all the common functions used by all the pages. This class is responsible for loading the configurations from properties files, Initializing the WebDriver, Implicit Waits, Extent Reports and also to create the object of FileInputStream which is responsible for pointing towards the file from which the data should be read.

Utility Class (AKA Functions Class): Utility class (TestUtil.java) stores and handles the functions (The code which is repetitive in nature such as waits, actions, capturing screenshots, accessing excels, sending email etc.,) which can be commonly used across the entire framework. The reason behind creating utility class is to achieve reusability. This class extends the TestBase class to inherit the properties of TestBase in TestUtil.

Properties file: This file (config.properties) stores the information that remains static throughout the framework such as browser specific information, application URL, screenshots path etc.
All the details which change as per the environment and authorization such as URL, Login Credentials are kept in the config.properties file. Keeping these details in a separate file makes easy to maintain.

Screenshots:  Screenshots will be captured and stored in a separate folder and also the screenshots of a failed test cases will be added in the extent reports.

Test Data: All the historical test data will be kept in excel sheet (controller.xlsx). By using ‘controller.xlsx’, we pass test data and handle data driven testing. We use Apache POI to handle excel sheets.

TestNG: Using TestNG for Assertions, Grouping and Parallel execution.

Maven: Using Maven for build, execution and dependency purpose. Integrating the TestNG dependency in POM.xml file and running this POM.xml file using Jenkins.

Version Control Tool: We use Git as a repository to store our test scripts.

Jenkins: By using Jenkins CI (Continuous Integration) Tool, we execute test cases on daily basis and also for nightly execution based on the schedule. Test Result will be sent to the peers using Jenkins.

Extent Reports: For the reporting purpose, we are using Extent Reports. It generates beautiful HTML reports. We use the extent reports for maintaining logs and also to include the screenshots of failed test cases in the Extent Report.

You have to explain all these when you are asked to explain test automation framework in the interview. If you have any other thoughts on how to explain test automation framework, comment below in the comments section.

Test Automation Framework Interview Questions And Answers
----------------------------------------------------------
1. What is a Framework?
-----------------------
Ans - A framework defines a set of rules or best practices which we can follow in a systematic way to achieve the desired results.

2. Tell me some popular Test Automation Frameworks?
----------------------------------------------------
Ans - There are different types of test automation frameworks and the most common ones are:

Modular Testing Framework
Data Driven Testing Framework
Keyword Driven Testing Framework
Hybrid Testing Framework
Behavior Driven Development Framework

3. Why Framework?
-----------------
Ans - In a test automation project, we do perform different tasks by using different types of files. To organize and manage all the files and to finish all the tasks in a systematic approach we use a framework.

4. Have you created any Framework?
----------------------------------
Ans  - If you are a beginner: No, I didn’t get a chance to create a framework. I have used the framework which is already available.
If you are an experienced tester: Yes, I have created a framework (Or) No, but I have involved in the creation of the framework.

5. What are the advantages of using Test Automation Framework?
---------------------------------------------------------------
Ans - Saves time and money. Automation testing is faster in execution
Reusability of code. Create one time and execute multiple times with less or no maintenance
Easy reporting. It generates automatic reports after test execution
Easy for compatibility testing. It enables parallel execution in combination of different OS and browser environments
Low cost maintenance. It is cheaper compared to manual testing in a long run
Automated testing is more reliable
Automated testing is more powerful and versatile
It is mostly used for regression testing. Supports execution of repeated test cases
Minimal manual intervention. Test scripts can be run unattended
Maximum coverage. It helps to increase the test coverage

6. Which Test Automation Framework you are using and why?
-------------------------------------------------------
Some of the Test Automation Frameworks are:

Data Driven Testing Framework
Keyword Driven Testing Framework
Hybrid Testing Framework

7. Mention the name of the framework which ‘you are currently using’ or which ‘you have hands on experience’.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Example: 
Answers should be, Already the organization which I am working for is using that particular framework or I have an experience on that particular framework or It’s easy to handle all my scripts to execute and generate logs, screenshots and reports by using this framework.

8. Can you explain the Framework which you have used in your Selenium Project?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ans - Plaese refer the Automation framework explanation.

9. Where you have applied OOPs in your Automation Framework?
-------------------------------------------------------------
Ans - 
ABSTRACTION
--------------
In Page Object Model design pattern, we write locators (such as id, name, xpath etc.,) in a Page Class. We utilize these locators in tests but we can’t see these locators in the tests. Literally we hide the locators from the tests.
Abstraction is the methodology of hiding the implementation of internal details and showing the functionality to the users.

INTERFACE
----------
Basic statement we all know in Selenium is WebDriver driver = new FirefoxDriver();

WebDriver itself is an Interface. So based on the above statement WebDriver driver = new FirefoxDriver(); we are initializing Firefox browser using Selenium WebDriver. It means we are creating a reference variable (driver) of the interface (WebDriver) and creating an Object. Here WebDriver is an Interface as mentioned earlier and FirefoxDriver is a class.

An interface in Java looks similar to a class but both the interface and class are two different concepts. An interface can have methods and variables just like the class but the methods declared in interface are by default abstract. We can achieve 100% abstraction and multiple inheritance in Java with Interface.

INHERITANCE
-----------
We create a Base Class in the Framework to initialize WebDriver interface, WebDriver waits, Property files, Excels, etc., in the Base Class.
We extend the Base Class in other classes such as Tests and Utility Class. Extending one class into other class is known as Inheritance.

POLYMORPHISM
------------
Combination of overloading and overriding is known as Polymorphism. We will see both overloading and overriding below.
Polymorphism allows us to perform a task in multiple ways.

METHOD OVERLOADING
------------------
We use implicit wait in Selenium. Implicit wait is an example of overloading. In Implicit wait we use different time stamps such as SECONDS, MINUTES, HOURS etc.,
A class having multiple methods with same name but different parameters is called Method Overloading

METHOD OVERRIDING
------------------
We use a method which was already implemented in another class by changing its parameters. To understand this you need to understand Overriding in Java.
Declaring a method in child class which is already present in the parent class is called Method Overriding. Examples are get and navigate methods of different drivers in Selenium .

ENCAPSULATION
-------------
All the classes in a framework are an example of Encapsulation. In POM classes, we declare the data members using @FindBy and initialization of data members will be done using Constructor to utilize those in methods.
Encapsulation is a mechanism of binding code and data together in a single unit.

I would like to discuss some other topics which we use in Automation Framework.
WEB ELEMENT:
Web element is an interface used to identify the elements in a web page.
WEBDRIVER:
WebDriver is an interface used to launch different browsers such as Firefox, Chrome, Internet Explorer, Safari etc.,
FIND BY:
FindBy is an annotation used in Page Object Model design pattern to identify the elements.
FIND ELEMENT:
Find Element is a method in POM to identify the elements in a web page.


10. What is Automation testing? What are the advantages of Automation Testing?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ans - Automation testing is the process of testing the software using an automation tool to find the defects. In this process, executing the test scripts and generating the results are performed automatically by automation tools. Some most popular tools to do automation testing are HP QTP/UFT, Selenium WebDriver, etc.

11. What are the most popular testing tools for functional testing?
---------------------------------------------------------------
Ans  -Selenium
QTP(Quick Test Professional) / UFT(Unified Functional Testing)

12. Why do you prefer Selenium Automation Tool?
-----------------------------------------------
Ans - Free and open source
Have large user base and helping communities
Cross-browser compatibility
Platform compatibility
Multiple programming languages support

13. What type of test cases do you pick up to automate?
--------------------------------------------------------
Ans - I focus on the test cases which should be executed in a repetitive manner such as regression test cases, smoke and sanity test cases

14. What type of test cases you won’t pick up to automate?
-------------------------------------------------------------
Ans - Before picking up the test cases to automate, I do check whether the application is stable or not. So based on this, I don’t pickup test cases when the AUT changes frequently and the test cases which I run rarely and run only one time. When I do usability and exploratory testing.

15. How many test cases you have automated per day?
----------------------------------------------------
Ans - It depends on Test case scenario complexity and length. I did automate 2-5 test scenarios per day when the complexity is limited. Sometimes just 1 or fewer test scenarios in a day when the complexity is high.

16. How you build Object Repository in your project? 
----------------------------------------------------
Ans - In QTP, there is an Object Repository concept. When a user records a test, the objects and its properties are captured by default in an Object Repository. QTP uses this Object Repository to play back the scripts. Coming to Selenium, there is no default Object Repository concept. It doesn’t mean that there is no Object Repository in Selenium. Even though there is no default one still we could create our own. In Selenium, we call objects as locators (such as ID, Name, Class Name, Tag Name, Link Text, Partial Link Text, XPath, and CSS). Object repository is a collection of objects. One of the ways to create Object Repository is to place all the locators in a separate file (i.e., properties file). But the best way is to use Page Object Model. In the Page Object Model Design Pattern, each web page is represented as a class. All the objects related to a particular page of a web application are stored in a class.




