Test data management is the creation of non-production data sets that reliably mimic an organization’s actual data so that systems and applications developers can perform rigorous and valid systems tests. 

@1 What do I need to know about test data management? 
The quality of test data matters. If applications are tested against generic data many problems can arise once the application is put into production. To avoid problems, applications must be tested rigorously against data that is as similar as possible to the actual data that will be used. 

@2 Why not copy production data for tests? 
Production data is often not practical for use in a test system due to security and regulatory concerns. Data that has personally identifiable information must be altered in order to protect people from having sensitive data exposed to the development and testing teams. Test data management uses data masking techniques to obfuscate personally identifiable information while still retaining the formatting and other data properties that are important for testing. 

@3 Who uses test data management? 
Test data management is used by organizations that do a lot of business critical processing of sensitive data. It is especially important in industries such as health care where a breach of sensitive customer data could be extremely damaging. However, most organizations have some data that is sensitive and needs to be masked for testing purposes. 

@4 What are the benefits of test data management? 
Test data management helps organizations create better quality software that will perform reliably on deployment. It prevents bug fixes and rollbacks and overall creates a more cost-efficient software deployment process. It also lowers the organization’s compliance and security risks.

@5 What Is Test Data Management?
If you have tests, you need test data. When testing in production—something you should be doing, if you’re not—you already have access to the best possible type of test data: Real data. However, testing in production doesn’t preclude testing before production, and that’s where test data management comes in handy.

Test Data Management (TDM) is the process of providing automated tests the data they need. The TDM process has to ensure the availability of test data, making sure test cases have access to the data in the right amounts, formats, and timing.

@6 Why Is Test Data Management Important?
Data has to meet several criteria if it is to be used effectively as test data. The TDM process is responsible for providing the test cases with data that meet those requirements. So, what are those qualities?

Properties of Good Test Data
Test data has to be of high quality, available, timely, realistic, and compliant.

Let’s start with quality. If you feed your test cases with poor quality data, don’t act surprised when you get less than stellar results. Keep in mind that “quality” in this context means that the data has to meet the expectations of the tests. For instance, while the test cases need valid data, sometimes you need invalid data. A classic example is when performing tests to see how the system reacts to invalid or unwanted input—i.e., negative testing.

Test data also needs to be available. It’s no use having great test data if the tests can’t access it, for whatever reason—e.g., authentication issues.

Also, test data needs to be timely. That is to say; it has to be accessible to the tests as soon as they require it, without delays.

Test data also needs to be realistic. What I mean by that is the data sets need to mimic as closely as possible what real production data looks like. Realist test data will contain data that faithfully resemble real data regarding quantity, formats, and more.

Finally, test data has to be compliant. Since some techniques to obtain test data—such as production cloning—rely on production data, organizations need to be really cautious not to disobey relevant privacy regulations, such as GDRP and others. This adds yet another layer of complexity to the responsibilities of the TDM process.

Automating With TDM
As you’ve just seen, test data needs to meet many requirements to be used effectively and safely in a test strategy. On a small enough scale, you might be able to get away with doing all of this manually. However, as your organization’s testing needs start to grow, it quickly becomes overwhelming to manage the required data without help.

That’s where test data management can make a difference. With the right tools, you can ensure the test cases in your organization get access to the data they need, enabling your testing strategy to go smoothly.

CA Test Data Manager
CA Test Data Manager is a product by Broadcom. It’s a tool meant to provide data for testing purposes in a fast and efficient way. Besides synthetic data creation capabilities, CA Test Data Manager can also improve the quality of production data, filling existing gaps in the data to better serve the needs of the test cases.

The pros of this tool include its compliance and data masking features, the already mentioned synthetic data capabilities, and the ability to create virtual copies of test data, reducing the duration of tests and the volume of test data needed.

When it comes to the cons, the powerful but non-intuitive interface is a common complaint.

Site: https://www.broadcom.com/products/software/continuous-testing/test-data-manager

DATPROF
Rather than being a single product, DATPROF is a suite of products catering to a different need in the overall TDM process. Among its main pros, we can mention:

its centralized dashboard where users can manage test data in many environments from a single place
the security and compliance capabilities
a self-service portal where people who perform testing can request the test data they need
support for a large number of database providers and many available integrations
free trial available
What about the cons? DATPROF’s approach of splitting its features between several offerings while giving the consumer flexibility can become somewhat overwhelming, especially for newcomers.

Site: https://www.datprof.com/

Delphix
Delphix provides a test data management platform that helps teams populate test environments with realistic and compliant test data. Among its advantages, we can cite its powerful masking capabilities, virtual test data provisioning, and version control for data sets. Delphix also integrates with several tools and data sources. Its interfaces are considered user-friendly and easy to use.

When it comes to the cons, complaints about the pricing are somewhat common since Delphix licenses their platform annually, depending on usage. Additionally, the data creation capabilities aren’t considered as strong as other features.

Site: https://www.delphix.com/solutions/test-data-management

Informatica
Informatica’s TDM offering has a focus on data quality and privacy. With strong masking and synthetic data generation capabilities, this tool provides organizations with automatic provisioning of test data to efficiently meet their testing needs. Informatica’s pros include its automatic provisioning capabilities, monitoring and reporting features, and comprehensive masking techniques. The tool also offers free trials, which makes it easier for organizations to evaluate.

Informatica’s price range has been cited as a con, besides the need for a friendlier interface.

Site: https://www.informatica.com/products/data-security/test-data-management.html

Testim
Testim’s offering is an AI-powered tool to help teams author stable end-to-end testing. Even though it’s not a TDM tool in the traditional sense, Testim has capabilities that make it a viable option for data-driven testing.

Testim lets you define data sets in various ways: Through its visual editor, through a configuration file, and even from external sources, such as the database or files (CSV, Excel, and so on).


A Comprehensive List Of The Best And Popular Test Data Management Tools.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

A process of planning, designing, storing, managing the software or the source codes of an application for testing is called Software test data management. The main objective of the test data management is to check and test the quality of the software. During the entire software testing life cycle, it controls the files, rules, etc. that are produced during processing.

It separates the test data from production data. It minimizes and optimizes the size of software testing data and creates the testing reports. To implement the process of the test data management, test data tool is used.

Any Test Data Management Tool Follows The Following Steps Of Processing:

In any system, data is stored in different formats, types, and locations. Different rules are applied to this data. Hence, the test tool finds out the appropriate test data from these data for the testing process.
Now the tool extracts the subset of data from the selected test data collected from multiple data sources.
After selecting the subset test data, test tool uses masking for sensitive test data, such as a client’s personal information.
Now the tool performs the comparison between the actual data and baseline test data to check the accuracy of the application.
To increase the efficiency of the application, the tool refreshes the test data.
Through this article, you can get information on the basic process of test data management and the top tools that perform this process.